Transaction Finality Explainer (#987)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/transactions/transaction-finality.mdx

---
title: Transaction Finality
lang: en-US
description: Learn about finality in OP Stack and the steps to achieve transaction settlement.
---

import Image from 'next/image'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

> # Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Transaction finality
```

> This guide explains how transaction finality works in OP Stack, covering the fundamental concepts of Fault Proofs and Challenges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how transaction finality works in the OP Stack and addresses common misconceptions around transaction finality and the Fault Proof System.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> OP Stack is an extension of Ethereum's consensus mechanism. Instead of running an entirely separate consensus protocol, the OP Stack leverages Ethereum's consensus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OP Stack derives its security from Ethereum by utilizing Ethereum's consensus mechanism. Instead of running an entirely separate consensus protocol, the OP Stack derives a layer 2 blockchain by reading the finalized state on Ethereum.
```

This enables it to take advantage of Ethereum's transaction ordering mechanism and finalize its own blocks without requiring a new consensus layer.

> ## Transaction Processing
> 
> State machines, such as the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), rely on input lists (transactions) to evolve from one state to another. The order of the transactions is critical because incorrect ordering can lead to an invalid state.
> 
> For example, if a user attempts to send 1 ETH to two different parties at the same time, only one transaction can be valid. The order determines which transaction succeeds, making transaction ordering an essential aspect of consensus.
> 
> ### Commutative vs. Non-Commutative Operations
> 
> Commutative operations allow the order of inputs to change without affecting the outcome. However, non-commutative operations (like sending funds) require strict ordering. Therefore, both the availability and the order of the transaction list are fundamental to ensuring the system's integrity.
> 
> ### Consensus and Ordering
> 
> Consensus determines the valid chain or list of transactions. In the OP Stack, Ethereum's Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism is used to achieve transaction ordering and finality.
> 
> ### Why Use Ethereum's Consensus?
> 
> By publishing blocks on Ethereum, the OP Stack effectively outsources its consensus mechanism. Instead of creating a separate consensus protocol, the OP Stack relies on Ethereum's ordering and finality guarantees.
> 
> ### Key benefits of this approach:
> 
> *   OP Stack inherits Ethereum's security and transaction ordering properties.
> *   It simplifies the design and development process by eliminating the need for a separate consensus protocol.
> *   Attack vectors, such as double-spends, are mitigated by Ethereum's security mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I recommend removing this section because I think it distracts from the key concept we're trying to illustrate in this document: Transaction finality

> ## Sequencer Operations
> 
> The sequencer (block producer) processes transactions in the following steps:
> 
> 1.  Pre-publishing Distribution:
>     *   The sequencer receives transactions from users.
>     *   It creates blocks containing these transactions.
>     *   It distributes these blocks to network nodes before L1 publication.
>     *   Nodes mark these blocks as "unsafe."
> 
> 2.  L1 Publication:
>     *   The sequencer publishes the blocks to Ethereum (L1).
>     *   Once included in L1, the blocks are marked as "safe."
>     *   Blocks achieve "finalized" status after L1 finalization (approximately 20 minutes).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Similar to my comment above, I think this is good context, but it detracts from the concept that we're trying to describe. I think the h2 below covers these details succinctly.

### Sequencer Trust Assumptions

The sequencer operates with the following trust assumptions:

*   It can temporarily withhold transactions.
*   It may attempt to reorder transactions before L1 publication.
*   Once transactions are published on L1, the sequencer cannot modify or censor them.
*   The sequencer cannot affect finalized transactions.

## Transaction Finality States

In the OP Stack, transaction finality progresses through three key stages:

> 1.  **Unsafe:** The L2 sequencer creates a block containing the transaction, but the transaction data has not yet been posted to Ethereum (L1). The block is circulated within the L2 network for speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Unsafe:** The sequencer creates a block containing the transaction, but the transaction data has not yet been posted to Ethereum (L1). The block is circulated within the L2 network for speed.
```

> 2.  **Safe:** The sequencer's batcher posts the transaction data to L1. At this point, any L2 node can derive the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  **Safe:** The batcher posts the transaction data to L1. At this point, any L2 node can derive the transaction.
```

> 3.  **Finalized:** Transactions are finalized once more than 65 Ethereum blocks (approximately 20 minutes) have passed, ensuring that the L1 data is secure and cannot be reorganized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  **Finalized:** Transactions are finalized once more than 65 Ethereum blocks (approximately 10-15 minutes) have passed, ensuring that the L1 data is secure and cannot be reorganized.
```

65 blocks * 12s blocks / 60s = 13 min

<Image src="/img/op-stack/protocol/tx-finality.png" alt="Transaction Finality Diagram." width={0} height={0} sizes="100vw" style={{ width: '100%', height: 'auto' }} quality={100} />

> ### Transaction Validity
> 
> When a block is submitted to Ethereum, it is either valid or invalid. If the block is valid, the state is updated accordingly. If it is invalid, the block is discarded. Nodes execute valid blocks and update the state as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transaction validity

When a transaction is submitted to the network, it is either valid or invalid. If the transaction is valid, the sequencer puts it in a block. If it is invalid, the transaction is discarded. There is no way the sequencer can write an invalid transaction to a new block.
```

Lets move this under the "Common misconceptions" header

> ### Reorgs and Finality
> 
> Once a block is included in a finalized Ethereum block, it cannot be reorganized. Therefore, blocks enjoy the same finality guarantees as Ethereum blocks, and this finality is managed by the OP Stack architecture.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reorgs and finality

Once a transaction is included in a finalized Ethereum block, it cannot be reorganized. 
```

Lets move this under the "Common misconceptions" header

> ### Handling Reorgs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Lets put this content under "Reorgs and finality"

If an Ethereum reorganization (reorg) occurs:

1.  L2 nodes detect the L1 reorg.
2.  Affected L2 blocks revert to an "unsafe" status.
3.  The sequencer typically republishes the same transactions.
4.  The system returns to a consistent state after reprocessing.

> ## The Role of the Proof System

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common misconceptions
```

> The proof system is entirely separate from the core OP Stack protocol. It is an application-level validation system designed to ensure the accuracy of certain claims about the transaction state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest misconception about transaction finality is that a transaction needs to wait for the entire challenge window to become finalized. The reality is the OP Stack transaction finality takes minutes, not over a week. This section detangles the concept of transaction finality and the Fault Proof System's challenger mechanism.
```

> ### What Is a Claim?
> 
> A claim in the context of OP Stack is a statement asserting the state of the system at a specific block height. For instance, a claim might assert that at block 1,000,000, the state hash is `XYZ`. If other participants believe this claim to be incorrect, they can challenge it.
> 
> ### Fault Proofs and Challenges
> 
> Challenges focus on proving whether a given claim is valid. The outcome of a challenge does not impact the underlying chain. For example, if a claim about the transaction state at a specific block is proven wrong, it only affects the app-level functionality and does not alter the OP Stack protocol.
> 
> ## 7-Day Challenge Period in OP Stack
> 
> The 7-day challenge period provides time for challenges to be raised and resolved.
> Although OP Stack finalizes transactions quickly (within 20 minutes), the 7-day challenge window serves two critical purposes:
> 
> 1.  It allows time to validate and dispute the correctness of batches posted to Ethereum by the op-batcher, particularly important in scenarios like 51% attacks.
> 2.  It provides a security period for withdrawal processing, ensuring the integrity of cross-chain operations.
> 
> ### Why Seven Days?
> 
> The 7-day challenge period is a reasonable time frame that allows participants to organize a response, potentially even initiating a L1 hard fork to address critical issues. In the OP Stack, this challenge period also serves as a safeguard for app-level bridges and custom designs that may be built on top of the core protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The role of proof system

The following is a quick refresher on the Fault Proof System. It is a system designed to ensure the accuracy of certain claims about the transaction state on the L2.

A claim in the context of OP Stack is a statement asserting the state of the system at a specific block height. For instance, a claim might assert that at block 1,000,000, the state hash is `XYZ`. If other participants believe this claim to be incorrect, they can challenge it.

Challenges focus on proving whether a given claim is valid. The outcome of a challenge does not impact the underlying chain. For example, if a claim about the transaction state at a specific block is proven wrong, it only affects the application level functionality and does not alter the OP Stack protocol.

The challenge period provides time for challenges to be raised and resolved.
Although OP Stack finalizes transactions quickly (within 20 minutes), the 7-day challenge window serves two critical purposes:

1.  It allows time to dispute the correctness of output state roots posted to Ethereum by the proposer.
2.  It provides a security period for withdrawal processing, ensuring the integrity of cross-chain operations.
```

> ### Bridge Independence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bridge independence
```

Key aspects of bridge systems include:

*   Bridges are application-level constructs.
*   They operate independently of the core OP Stack protocol.
*   Bridge security does not affect the validity of L2 transactions.
*   Bridge failures do not cause L2 reorgs or state changes.

> ### Example: Custom Bridges in OP Stack
> 
> A custom bridge might be developed by a user to allow ERC-20 tokens to move between layers. However, this bridge is application-level and not native to the OP Stack. If there is an issue with the bridge, such as incorrect proof validation, it does not impact the protocol itself but affects the subjective value of the bridged assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a custom bridge might be developed to allow ERC-20 tokens to move between layers. However, this bridge is application-level and not native to the OP Stack. If there is an issue with the bridge, such as incorrect proof validation, it does not impact the protocol itself but affects the subjective value of the bridged assets.
```

> ### Withdrawal Delays vs. Finality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Withdrawal delays vs. finality
```

> One common misconception is confusing withdrawal delays with transaction finality:

Reviewer: This is a big misconception, lets bump it towards the top of this section

### Challenges in the Standard Bridge can cause a chain reorg

Another misconception related to the belief that [finalization takes 7 days](#misconception-transactions-take-7-days-to-finalize) is that **Fault Proof challenges** created in response to withdrawals in the Standard Bridge can reorganize the OP Stack chain. **This is incorrect.** OP Stack transactions are not reorganized in response to Fault Proof challenge.

The [Standard Bridge](/builders/app-developers/bridging/standard-bridge) is a bridge application that is included by default with any OP Stack chain and connects the chain to its "parent" blockchain (usually Ethereum). It offers a high level of security for ETH and ERC-20 tokens moved through the bridge.

When using the Standard Bridge, users who send ETH or ERC-20 tokens to Ethereum must first burn those tokens on the OP Stack chain and then create a **withdrawal claim** on Ethereum.

Because the Standard Bridge cannot immediately verify withdrawal claims, it delays the claim by 7 days to allow the OP Stack Fault Proof system to filter out any invalid claims. Challenges only remove bad claims without affecting the Standard Bridge or the OP Stack chain.

> TODO: It'd be really fun to have a button that (for the bond cost of 0.08 ETH) creates a bad withdrawal claim for all of the ETH in the bridge. Users would be able to see first hand how their claim gets deleted and nothing else happens.

Author: @smartcontracts How do we want to approach this?

Reviewer 2: Can skip it for now but it would be a cool addition down the line

---

import Image from 'next/image'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Transaction finality

This guide explains when transactions on OP Stack chains are considered finalized and addresses common misconceptions about transaction finality on the OP Stack.

## Basics of finality

Transaction finality refers to the point at which a transaction becomes irreversible under certain assumptions. For example, Ethereum transactions are considered finalized when specific conditions in Ethereum's consensus mechanism are met. Many applications built on Ethereum rely on this property when making decisions, such as crediting a user's account after they deposit funds.

## OP Stack finality

OP Stack chains in the standard configuration are Rollups that use Ethereum's consensus mechanism to order and finalize transactions rather than running a separate consensus protocol. Therefore, OP Stack chains inherit Ethereum's ordering and finality properties.

## Steps to finality

Transactions on OP Stack chains go through the following process to reach finality:

1.  A user submits a transaction to the network, which forwards it to the Sequencer.

> 2.  The Sequencer includes the transaction in a block and distributes it over a public peer-to-peer network. At this point, the transaction is considered **"unsafe"**. A technical term indicating that the transaction is in a block but its data has not yet been posted to Ethereum. This process typically takes only a few seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.  The Sequencer includes the transaction in a block and distributes it over a public peer-to-peer network. At this point, the transaction is considered **"unsafe"**, a technical term indicating that the transaction is in a block but its data has not yet been posted to Ethereum. This process typically takes only a few seconds.
```

> 3.  The Sequencer publishes this block's data to Ethereum, either as [blob data](https://www.eip4844.com/) or as calldata attached to a standard Ethereum transaction. Once included in an Ethereum block, the transaction is **"safe"**. This step usually takes 5–10 minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  The Sequencer publishes this block's data to Ethereum, either as [blob data](https://www.eip4844.com/) or as calldata attached to a standard Ethereum transaction. Once included in an Ethereum block, the transaction is considered **"safe"**. This step usually takes 5–10 minutes.
```

4.  The Ethereum block containing the Sequencer's transaction is finalized. At this point, the transaction reaches a **"finalized"** state. Ethereum finalization typically takes about 65 Ethereum blocks, or approximately 13 minutes, but may take longer under certain network conditions. Finality depends entirely on [Ethereum's consensus mechanism](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/#finality).

> TODO: Fix this so it has the right numbers

Reviewer 2: Can get rid of this TODO, looks right

> TODO: Fix this so it has the right numbers

Reviewer 3: You still have the TODO in here

    participant Network
    participant Sequencer
    participant Ethereum

    User->>Network: Submit transaction
    Network->>Sequencer: Forward transaction
    Sequencer->>Sequencer: Include transaction in block
    Sequencer->>Network: Distribute block over P2P network
    Note right of Sequencer: Transaction status: "unsafe"<br>(block data not yet posted to Ethereum)<br>~a few seconds

    Sequencer->>Ethereum: Publish block data (as blob data<br>or calldata)
    Note right of Ethereum: Transaction status: "safe"<br>(included in Ethereum block)<br>~5–10 minutes

    Ethereum->>Ethereum: Finalize block (~65 blocks or ~13 mins)
    Note right of Ethereum: Transaction status: "finalized"<br>~13 minutes (may vary)

```
## Common misconceptions

### Transactions take 7 days to finalize

A common misconception is that transactions on OP Stack chains take 7 days to finalize. **This is incorrect.** Transactions on OP Stack chains become finalized when their data is included in a finalized Ethereum block, typically around 20–30 minutes after submission. To reorg a finalized OP Stack chain transaction, a reorg of the corresponding Ethereum block would be required.

> This misconception often arises due to the OP Stack's Standard Bridge, which includes a 7-day delay on *withdrawals* of ETH and ERC-20 tokens. Withdrawing tokens from an OP Stack chain to Ethereum using the Standard Bridge requires a minimum 7-day wait. This delay affects only withdrawals and does not impact transaction finality on the OP Stack chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This misconception often arises due to the OP Stack's Standard Bridge, which includes a 7-day delay on *withdrawals* of ETH and ERC-20 tokens. Withdrawing tokens from an OP Stack chain to Ethereum using the Standard Bridge requires a minimum 7-day wait. This delay affects only withdrawals through the Standard Bridge and does not impact transaction finality on the OP Stack chain.
```

### Challenges in the Standard Bridge can cause a chain reorg

> Another misconception related to the belief that [finalization takes 7 days](#misconception-transactions-take-7-days-to-finalize) is that **Fault Proof challenges** created in response to withdrawals in the Standard Bridge can reorganize the OP Stack chain. **This is incorrect.** OP Stack transactions are not reorganized in response to Fault Proof challenge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another misconception related to the belief that [finalization takes 7 days](#misconception-transactions-take-7-days-to-finalize) is that **Fault Proof challenges** created in response to withdrawals in the Standard Bridge can reorganize the OP Stack chain. **This is incorrect.** OP Stack transactions are not reorganized in response to Fault Proof challenges.
```

The [Standard Bridge](/builders/app-developers/bridging/standard-bridge) is a bridge application that is included by default with any OP Stack chain and connects the chain to its "parent" blockchain (usually Ethereum). It offers a high level of security for ETH and ERC-20 tokens moved through the bridge.

When using the Standard Bridge, users who send ETH or ERC-20 tokens to Ethereum must first burn those tokens on the OP Stack chain and then create a **withdrawal claim** on Ethereum.

Because the Standard Bridge cannot immediately verify withdrawal claims, it delays the claim by 7 days to allow the OP Stack Fault Proof system to filter out any invalid claims. Challenges only remove bad claims without affecting the Standard Bridge or the OP Stack chain.

TODO: It'd be really fun to have a button that (for the bond cost of 0.08 ETH) creates a bad withdrawal claim for all of the ETH in the bridge. Users would be able to see first hand how their claim gets deleted and nothing else happens.

### The Sequencer can always reorg the chain

> A common misconception is that the Sequencer can trigger reorganizations of the OP Stack chain at any time. However, while the Sequencer can reorganize **"unsafe"** blocks (not yet published to Ethereum), reorganizations become more challenging once blocks are **"safe"** or **"finalized."**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A common misconception is that the Sequencer can trigger reorganizations of the OP Stack chain at any time. However, while the Sequencer can reorganize **"unsafe"** blocks (not yet published to Ethereum), reorganizations become more challenging once blocks are **"safe"** and become effectively impossible once blocks are **"finalized."**
```

---
title: Transaction Finality
lang: en-US
description: Learn about finality in OP Stack and the steps to achieve transaction settlement.
---

import Image from 'next/image'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Transaction finality

This guide explains how transaction finality works in the OP Stack and addresses common misconceptions around transaction finality and the Fault Proof System.

The OP Stack derives its security from Ethereum by utilizing Ethereum's consensus mechanism. Instead of running an entirely separate consensus protocol, the OP Stack derives a layer 2 blockchain by reading the finalized state on Ethereum.

## Transaction finality states

In the OP Stack, transaction finality progresses through three key stages:

> 1.  **Unsafe:** The sequencer creates a block containing the transaction, but the transaction data has not yet been posted to Ethereum (L1). The block is circulated within the L2 network for speed.

Reviewer 2: I prefer to capitalize the names of actors within the system, so `sequencer => Sequencer`.

*   It may attempt to reorder transactions before L1 publication.
*   Once transactions are published on L1, the sequencer cannot modify or censor them.

> *   The sequencer cannot affect finalized transactions.

Reviewer: Lets drop this section underneath the, "Transaction finality states" so that topic is first

> 2.  **Safe:** The batcher posts the transaction data to L1. At this point, any L2 node can derive the transaction.

Reviewer 2: Only thing worth considering here is that *technically* the sequencer and the batcher are two different things but it can often be easier to just refer to them as the same thing for the sake of clarity. So instead of `The batcher posts to the transaction data to L1` you might want to say `The Sequencer posts the transaction data to L1`.

> 3.  **Finalized:** Transactions are finalized once more than 65 Ethereum blocks (approximately 10-15 minutes) have passed, ensuring that the L1 data is secure and cannot be reorganized.

Reviewer 2: This isn't correct, an Ethereum transaction is not finalize after exactly 65 blocks, it depends on 2/3rds of validator signing off 2 back to back checkpoints. In *general* this takes about 2 epochs or 65 blocks / 12.8 minutes but it can take much longer in bad network conditions.

<Image src="/img/op-stack/protocol/tx-finality.png" alt="Transaction Finality Diagram." width={0} height={0} sizes="100vw" style={{ width: '100%', height: 'auto' }} quality={100} />

### Transaction validity

> When a transaction is submitted to the network, it is either valid or invalid. If the transaction is valid, the sequencer puts it in a block. If it is invalid, the transaction is discarded. There is no way the sequencer can write an invalid transaction to a new block.

Reviewer 2: The Sequencer *can* attempt to publish a block that contains an invalid transaction but this will be rejected by the rest of the network

## Sequencer trust assumptions

The sequencer operates with the following trust assumptions:

*   It can temporarily withhold transactions.
*   It may attempt to reorder transactions before L1 publication.

> *   Once transactions are published on L1, the sequencer cannot modify or censor them.

Reviewer 2: Not true, in theory the Sequencer can still modify things until finality is reached because you can have reorgs

> *   The sequencer cannot affect finalized transactions.

Reviewer 3: the 4th bullet point is the same as the 3rd right?

## Common misconceptions

The biggest misconception about transaction finality is that a transaction needs to wait for the entire challenge window to become finalized. 
The reality is the OP Stack transaction finality takes minutes, not over a week. This section explains transaction finality and the Fault Proof System's challenge mechanism.

> ### Reorgs and finality

Reviewer 3: Reorgs shouldnt be in the FP section right?, should be above the common misconceptions unless im misunderstanding

Once a transaction is included in a finalized Ethereum block, it cannot be reorganized. 

> If an Ethereum reorganization (reorg) occurs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an Ethereum reorganization (reorg) were to occur *before* finality:
```

1.  L2 nodes detect the L1 reorg.

> 2.  Affected L2 blocks revert to an "unsafe" status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Affected `safe` L2 blocks revert to an `unsafe` status.
```

3.  The sequencer typically republishes the same transactions.
4.  The system returns to a consistent state after reprocessing.

> ### The role of proof system

Reviewer 2: Much of this is confusing because it still doesn't present the Optimism bridge as an application rather than a core part of the rollup. It's important to start by demonstrating that the bridge is an application and that it's the bridge that uses the proof system, not the rollup.

> The Fault Proof System is designed to ensure the accuracy of certain claims about the transaction state on the L2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Fault Proof System is designed to ensure the accuracy of certain claims about the transaction state on the L2. It provides a way to prove messages from L2 to L1 are correct. It does not have to do with transaction finality.
```

> The Fault Proof System is designed to ensure the accuracy of certain claims about the transaction state on the L2. It provides a way to prove messages from L2 to L1 are correct. It does not have to do with transaction finality.

Reviewer 2: The Fault Proof System is used by *bridge* contracts on L1 to verify claims that users make about the state of L2 for the purpose of facilitating user withdrawals of certain bridged assets from L2 to L1.

> A claim in the context of OP Stack is a statement asserting the state of the system at a specific block height. For instance, a claim might assert that at block 1,000,000, the state hash is `XYZ`. If other participants believe this claim to be incorrect, they can challenge it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A claim in the context of OP Stack is a statement asserting the state of the system at a specific block height. For instance, a claim might assert that at block 1,000,000 a certain address has all of the ether on the entire L2. If other participants believe this claim to be incorrect, they can challenge it.
```

> Challenges focus on proving whether a given claim is valid. The outcome of a challenge does not impact the underlying chain. For example, if a claim about the transaction state at a specific block is proven wrong, it only affects the application level functionality and does not alter the OP Stack protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Challenges focus on proving whether a given claim is valid. The outcome of a challenge does not impact the underlying chain. For example, if a claim about a certain address owning all the ether on the L2 is proven wrong, that address would not be able to move the ether from L2 to their address on L1.
```

The challenge period provides time for challenges to be raised and resolved.
Although OP Stack finalizes transactions quickly (within 20 minutes), the 7-day challenge window serves two critical purposes:

1.  It allows time to dispute the correctness of output state roots posted to Ethereum by the proposer.

> 2.  It provides a security period for withdrawal processing, ensuring the integrity of cross-chain operations.

Reviewer 3: think we should explain what happens if there's a successful challenge

Reviewer 2: Yes, illustrate both examples clearly

### Withdrawal delays vs. finality

One common misconception is confusing withdrawal delays with transaction finality:

*   Transaction finality occurs in approximately 10–15 minutes.
*   Withdrawal delays (often 7 days) are separate from transaction finality.

> *   Withdrawal delays are application-level security features.

Reviewer 3: what does this mean?

*   These delays affect only L1 withdrawals, not L2 transaction finality.

> ### Bridge independence

Reviewer 3: i think we can remove this section

Reviewer 2: I think the core concepts of this section are important but it needs to be made more specific to the Optimism bridge and needs to be included higher up. Withdrawals are NOT a part of the core protocol. They are an app-level construct.
